# Photoacoustic Image Enhancement
This project was undertaken by Dr. Nguyen in the University of Idaho Math Dept. and Matthew Mills, and undergraduate RA in the Spring and Summer of 2020. The goal of the project was to provide deep learning model that would enhance medical images produced by conventional photoacoustic imaging algorithms. The following paper was used as a primary reference:
Y-Net: Hybrid deep learning image reconstruction for photoacoustic tomography in vivo - ScienceDirect
	This paper outlines a method of image enhancement called the YNET method, which trains a convolutional neural network using raw sensor data, photoacoustic images of tissue samples, and real images of the tissue samples as the training data. The goal of the project was to reimplement the YNET method with several modifications such as augmentation and segmentation to improve performance. The first step was to acquire and generate the training dataset. The raw sensor data was generated using the kwave MATLAB library. This sensor data was used to generate simulated photoacoustic images using a conventional time reversal method in MATLAB.
	The next step of the project involved reimplementing the YNET method and applying modifications. This process began by implementing a simpler method called UNET described in the following link: U-Net: Convolution Neural Network for Image Segmentation – hello ML . The UNET method would train a convolutional neural network to enhance photoacousticly generated images using only the photoacoustic images in the training data. Once this was implemented, the goal was to integrate more layers of convolution allowing the model to train on the raw sensor data as well as the photoacoustic images, thereby imitating the YNET method. The UNET method was trained using images provided by the YNET paper mentioned previously. The UNET implementation was almost completed when the original YNET implementation was discovered on Github at the following link: GitHub - chenyilan/Y-Net: The source code of "Y-Net: A Hybrid Deep Learning Reconstruction Framework for Photoacoustic Imaging in vivo" . A little progress was made on re-implementing this YNET method before the project came to a halt.




